# UnB_Unicamp_paper
Supplementary material of paper: Flat slab-edge column connections subjected to outward and inward eccentricity: numerical modeling and comparison with codes
Submitted to: Engineering Structures
Abstract: This paper investigates the structural behavior of reinforced concrete (RC) flat slabs supported on edge columns and the influence of eccentricity direction on their punching shear strength. For this purpose, code provisions were compared to the ultimate capacities of experimental tests found in the literature. The comparison included the approaches provided by the current Eurocode 2, fib Model Code 2010 and the final draft of the second generation of Eurocode 2. Then, a numerical investigation was conducted in which the full-scale slabs tested by Albuquerque et al. were simulated. The numerical analyses were carried out in the software Diana using a total strain-based crack model to simulate the concrete nonlinear behavior. The input parameters used in the constitutive model were obtained through a stochastic calibration approach to account for the uncertainties related to the concrete modeling. A reasonable agreement was found between the calibrated numerical models and the experimental results regarding load-deflection curves and crack patterns. Furthermore, important differences were identified in the failure mode of edge column-slab connections subjected to inward and outward eccentricities. Finally, additional simulations were carried out to obtain a full shear-moment interaction and investigate the shear distribution at the control perimeters around the column. The results obtained in the code comparison and the numerical investigation were discussed, and conclusions were derived to improve the design of flat slab-edge column connections.
